A comprehensive plan for creating a Grand Unified Data System (GUDS) would include the following steps:

Define the data types that will be supported by the system. This could include common types such as integers, strings, and arrays, as well as custom types specific to your application, such as game levels or player profiles.

Create a system for serializing and deserializing data. This should be able to convert data between the in-memory representation and a file format representation. The system should be flexible enough to support multiple file formats, such as JSON, XML, and binary.

Develop a data storage system that can handle the different types of data. This could include a file system-based storage for large binary data, a NoSQL database for structured data, and a key-value store for configuration data.

Create an API that can be used to interact with the data. This should include functions for loading and saving data, as well as querying and updating the data.

Develop a system for handling dependencies between different data types. This should ensure that data is loaded and saved in the correct order, and that any dependent data is also loaded and saved.

Create a system for handling versioning of data. This should be able to detect when data has been updated and handle the changes in a way that is compatible with older versions of the data.

Develop a system for handling errors and exceptions. This should be able to detect when something has gone wrong and provide meaningful error messages.

Test the system thoroughly to ensure it is working correctly and identify and fix any bugs or issues.

Document the system and provide examples and tutorials on how to use it.

Continuously maintain and improve the system, adding new features and fixing any issues that arise.

Optionally, you can implement a diffing feature that can be used to keep track of changes made to the data and back them up, in order to make it easy to rollback or restore the data to a previous state.